h2. merb_auth-core

MerbAuth is a very _unopinionated_ authentication framework for use with the
Merb web framework.

MerbAuth does not try to dictate what you should use as a user type model, or how
it should authenticate.  Instead it focuses on the logic required to check
that an object passes authentication, and store authenticated objects in the
session.  This is in fact the guiding principle of MerbAuth.  The controller is
not the place that an authenticated user of the system should live.  A controller
is for directing traffic.  Instead, the session is used as the place for
authentication, with a sprinkling of controller helpers.  For example, inside
your controller:

* session.authenticated?  
  returns true if the session has been
  authenticated.  False otherwise # session.authenticate(controller)
  authenticates the session based on customizable user defined rules 

* session.user                      
  returns the currently authenticated user object 

* session.user= 
  manually sets the currently authenticated user object 

* session.abandon!                  
sets the session to unauthenticated, and clears all session data

MerbAuth makes use of Merb's exception handling facilities which return correct
HTTP status codes when a 200 OK would be inappropriate.  To fail a login, or 
to force a login at any point in your controller code, simply raise an 
Unauthenticated exception, with an optional message and the user will be 
taken to the login page.

To protect your controllers, add a simple @before@ filter to your controller.

<code> before :ensure_authenticated </code>

It is possible to use MerbAuth with any object type as a _user_ object, provided
that object does not evaluate to false and it can be retrieved with @key@.  
For this reason, merb_auth-core does not try to implement even a simple login 
form for you, since it may not be to your liking.

h3. How Does It Authenticate my arbitrary user?

This is very similar to the BootLoader process in Merbs initialization.  
You declare a class that inherits from Authentication::Strategy and
define an instance method @run!@

<pre><code>
  class PasswordStrategy &lt Authentication::Strategy
  
    def run!
      if params[:login] && params[:password]
        user_class.authenticate(params[:login], params[:password])
      end
    end
  end
  
</code></pre>

bq. This login strategy uses the @authenticate@ finder on the User class to 
retrieve a user by @login@ and @password@.  Remember, you can put as much logic
here as you require.

The strategy provides access to the current controller giving you access
to the params hash, request, session etc.

To pass authentication, simply return a non-nil
non-false object at the end of the @run!@ method.  Any false or nil value will cause
that strategy to fail.  Then the next one will be tried :)  wait... what?

You can add as many strategies as you like and they will be tried one after
another until either one is found that works (login), or none of them have
passed (failed attempt).

<pre><code>
    class PasswordLoginBasicAuth &lt Authentication::Strategy
      def run!
        if controller.basic_authentication.provided?
          controller.basic_authentication.authenticate do |login, password|
            user = user_class.authenticate(login, password) 
            unless user
              controller.basic_authentication.request!
              throw(:halt, "Login Required")
            end
            user
          end
        end
      end
    end
</code></pre>

Now that we have two, they will be executed in the order that they were declared
when we call @session.authenticate!(self)@.  The first one that
returns a value that doesn't evaluate to false, will be considered the winner.

h3. Customizing the user_class

Notice the @user_class@ method in the above strategy examples.  This is a convenience method on a strategy
to provide you with the user_class to use for this strategy.  You can overwrite
this method on a per strategy basis to use different user model types.

By default the strategy#user_class method will defer to Authentication#user_class
so you can overwrite this method to set the default user class for your application if required.
The default value is @User@

h3. Strategies and Inheritance

Strategies may be inherited multiple times to make the job of combining similar aspects easier.  
You can inherit as many levels as you like and at any point you may mark a strategy as _abstract_

An abstract strategy just means that it will not be run when it comes time to authenticate.  
Instead it's good to put common logic in and then inherit from.

To mark a class as abstract, use the @abstract!@ class method.

<pre><code>
  class AbstractStrategy < Authentication::Strategy
    abstract!
  end
</code></pre>

h3. Customizing the order of the strategies

By default, strategies are run in the order they are declared.  It's possible
to customize the order that the strategies are called.

@Authentication.default_strategy_order@ will return an array of
the strategy classes in the order that they will be run.  
You can customize this by setting the default_strategy_order array
manually.

@Authenticateion.default_strategy_order.order = [Second, First, Fourth]@

It's possible to leave some out, and re-order existing ones.  It will error
out if you specify one that doesn't exist though.

h3. Specifying selected strategies per action

It's possible to configure each call to @ensure_authenticated@ with a custom list
of strategies to run.  These will be run in order and should have an instance method
of #run!

<pre><code>
  class ApiMethods < Application
    before :ensure_authenticated, :with => [
                                            Authenticated::BasicAuth, 
                                            Authenticated::OpenID, 
                                            Authenticated::OAuth
                                           ]
    before :machine_only, :only => [:create]
    
    def index
      display @stuff
    end

    def create
      stuff = Stuff.create(params[:stuff])
      display stuff
    end
    
    private
    def machine_only
      ensure_authentiated Authenticated::Oauth, Authenticated::BasicAuth
    end
  end
</code></pre>

You can see in this example that you can specify a list of strategies to use.
These will be executed in the order of the array passed in, with the default order
ignored completely.

h3. Where should Strategies be defined?

So far the thinking is that strategies should be setup in a directory for this purpose.

lib/strategies/ 

This is a good place to put everything together so you can see what you're doing at a glance.

h3. What Strategies are there?

See merb_auth-more


h3. Storing you user object into the session

You need to tell MerbAuth how to represent your user object in the session
data store, and also how to reconstruct it from that data.  You don't
want to store complex objects in the session if you can avoid it.

To configure your user object to go in and out of the session, here's how you
could do it.

<pre><code>
    class Authentication

      # return the value you want stored in the session 
      def store_user(user)
        return nil unless user 
        user.id
      end

      # session info is the data you stored in the session previously 
      def fetch_user(session_info)
        User.get(session_info)
      end
    end
</code></pre>

h3. Providing feedback to users (Error Messages)

There's at least 4 ways to provide feedback to users for failed logins. 

* Overwrite Authentication#error_message  The return of this method is 
  the default message that is passed to the Unauthenticated exception.  Overwrite
  this to provide a very basic catch all message.
* Provide a default message when you declare your before filter.
  <pre><code>
    before :ensure_authenticated, :with => [Openid, :message => "Could not log you in with open ID"]
    # OR
    before :ensure_authentication, :with => {:message => "Sorry Buddy... You Lose"}
  </code></pre>
  When you pass a message, it will replace the Authentication#error_message default for this
  action
* Use an after filter for your login action.  This can be used to set your messaging system.  For example:
  <pre><code>
    after :set_login_message, :only => [:create]
    
    private
    def set_login_message
      if session.authenticated?
        flash[:message] = "Welcome"
      else
        flash[:error] = "Bad.. You Fail"
      end
    end
  </code></pre>
* Use the authentications error messaging inside your strategies to set error messages there.
  You can add to these errors just like adding to DataMappers validation errors. (That's where they come from)
  
  <pre><code>
    session.authentication.errors.add("Label", "You Fail")
  </code></pre>
  Add as many as you like, ask @session.authentication.errors.on(:label)@ to get specific errors etc
  Really... They're just like the DataMapper validation errors.  The bonus of using this system
  is that you can add messages inside your Strategies, and also in your views you can do this:
  <pre><code>
    <%= error_messages_for sessions.authentication %>
  </pre></code>
  

h3. Additional checks / actions to perform after the user is found

Sometimes you may need to perform additional operations on the user object
before or after you grab it out of the database when authenticating it.  The
Authentication class implements Extlib::Hook so you can just setup hooks to
deal with this.

Here's an example of checking that a user object is active after it's been
found: 

  after :authenticate! do |instance, *args|
    raise Merb::Controller::Unauthenticated, "User Not Active" unless instance.user.active?
  end

bq. Notice that to fail the check we raised an Unauthenticated exception.  The
session is available in that block as <code>session</code>

Really that's all there is to it.  By default this plugin doesn't actually
authenticate anything ;)  It's up to you to get your model going, and add an
authentication strategy.  Just remember that to login, you just use
@session.authenticate(request)@ inside a controller.  To logout use
@session.abandon!@ and to force a login at any time use 
@raise Unauthenticated, "You Aren't Cool Enough"@
Be aware that strategies may throw :halt for use as a before filter...  

h3. Contributors 

# Adam French - "http://adam.speaksoutofturn.com/":http://adam.speaksoutofturn.com/
# Daniel Neighman - "http://merbunity.com":http://merbunity.com
# Ben Burket - "http://benburkert.com/":http://benburkert.com/
